# How Free AI Token Will Make Staff Be Layoff

Based on the data in Trueup's Tech Layoffs Tracker record in the passed 4 month 2026  there have been 227 layoffs at tech companies with 91,679 people impacted (926 people per day) in silicon valley. And there expect 338K people will be layoff in 2026. Most of the layoff reason will be "The AI Agent has been able to fully automated these people's daily work"...

And compare with the layoff before, we can see such as the recent days when a famous software company fire 30K staff, there will be no work hand over period for the staff to transfer the work to other colleague. Some people may ask will that make influence of the company's service? The answer may be not, because the staff's knowledge are distilled in to the skill which agent are able to emulate. 

In this year a lot of company force stuff must use or integrate AI assistant for in their Email, Document, Report, Program Code IDE, Teams and Wechat Lark with the enterprise API token plane and the staff must use up several hundred or thousands USD per month. Such as 

- All the email need to re-write by AI assistant. 
- Force how many percent of code must be generate by AI. 
- The report and slides need to be generated by AI. 

As most of action and under the real time monitoring of the ai assistant, the AI assistant will "learn" the user's action as input and user's decision to improve the output and finally distill the action into one skill file. 

F

https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV198XfBHEmB/?spm_id_from=333.1007.tianma.1-2-2.click&vd_source=5ff50dfdd1613df97004d3548592e433

https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FX9MBtETd/?spm_id_from=333.1007.tianma.2-3-6.click&vd_source=5ff50dfdd1613df97004d3548592e433